Our error handling middleware is looking pretty good, but as I've said several times, just one or
two quick more things.
So the next thing I want to take a look at is inside this middleware.
I just want to really study these two statements for a moment.
At present, we are checking to see if the error is of type request validation error or database connection
error.
If it is, we then call the errors serialize error method, stick it into this bigger object and then
send the result back to the user.
There's a very big potential for a mistake inside of here right now.
Let's imagine for a second that someone is building out a new custom air class.
So let's imagine that we are building out request validation here for the very first time and I sit
down to implement this serialized areas function.
So let's imagine that we're writing this out for the very first time and maybe for some accidental reason.
We make a little typo in message.
Maybe I type in mage instead of message.
At present, there is absolutely nothing inside of our typescript code to verify and make sure that
serialize errors is put together correctly.
It would be really nice if we had some kind of check inside of our code.
Something to make sure that serialize errors is always going to return this kind of structure right
here.
That nice array of objects that we are doing all this work to make sure we get.
So right now when these errors flow into our error handling middleware.
We're just checking to see if we have an instance of database connection error or request validation
error.
If we do so, if we say yes, that's what this error is.
Our error handling middleware is pretty much just saying, Gee, I sure hope you implemented that.
Serialize errors function correctly.
It's really just a hope and it would be kind of nice to actually have something in the TypeScript world
to just double check and make sure that these custom errors have the correct implementation of serialize
errors.
That would be something to be really nice to add in because it would make sure that as we start to add
some additional custom error classes in the future, we want to make sure that we've always creating
a custom error that has a status code that's a number and has a serialized errors function that's going
to return the correct structure of data.
Because again, we're going through all this extra effort just to make sure that all of our different
servers that we're going to create over time are always going to return the exact same structure of
error.
So again, it'd just be really great to make sure that we had something inside the TypeScript world
to double check that.
So how can we do this?
Well, there are two possible approaches.
Here's option number one.
Option number one, we could create a new file inside of our ears directory, and we would call this
file something like custom air.
Inside there, we would define an interface called Custom Air.
So inside this custom air interface, we would define what it means to be a custom air.
We could say that in order to be a customer, you must have a status code that is a number, and you
must implement a serialized function that returns an array of objects that has a message property and
possibly a field property.
We could then import that into our request validation and database connection files and use that implements
keyword to make sure that those classes correctly implement that interface.
Now, this is a very, very viable option.
Absolutely not anything inherently wrong with this.
And because of that, I want to just very quickly, like really quickly write out the code to do something
like this, just to make sure it's really crystal clear.
Now we are going to delete this code immediately.
Again, I just want to give you a very quick example so you do not have to write this out if you don't
want to.
So as an example, normally I would define this interface inside of a separate file, but just to save
some time, I'll write the interface directly inside of request validation error.
So we could do something inside of here, like customer.
We could say that in order to be a customer, you have to have a status code that is a.
Number and you must have a serialized air function that's going to return an array of objects.
And each of those objects should have a message that is a string.
And optionally a field.
The question mark right there says that field is not necessary, but you can optionally provide it.
So now that this interface is put together, we can make sure that our custom class satisfies this interface
by writing onto the very end of the class.
Declaration implements custom air.
Like so.
So now this is double check, going to double check and make sure that I've got a status code that is
a number and a function called serialize errors that returns an array of objects that look like that.
As soon as I add on implements custom error, I can scroll down and see that I've now got an error around
serialize errors and that's because I have a function.
It is called serialize errors but is returning the incorrect structure of data rather than saying message,
it says mage.
And so this would help me catch errors in my code.
It would help make sure that I always write out custom errors with the correct structure or status code
and serialize errors.
So again, this is an absolutely viable option, but it's not quite what we're going to do this time
around.
So I'm going to delete that interface.
And implements on the very end as well.
So what are we going to do instead?
Well, we're going to take a very similar approach, but instead of using an interface, we're going
to use something slightly different.
We're going to create a new abstract class called Custom Air.
The abstract class is going to serve the exact same purpose as the interface that we just looked at.
So it's going to set out a number of properties that must be defined in order to be considered to be
a custom error.
If you're not familiar with abstract classes in general and TypeScript, couple of reminders on them,
an abstract class is like a class, but it cannot be directly instantiated.
So in other words, we cannot say new custom error.
Instead, custom or abstract classes are used to organize our code and somehow set up requirements for
subclasses of this class.
So really, it's being used to set up a requirement for a subclass.
The nice thing about a abstract class is that when we translate this over to JavaScript to actually
execute, we actually do end up with a class definition.
When we translate interfaces to JavaScript, all interfaces fall away.
They don't actually exist in the world of JavaScript, but abstract classes do.
And that means that we can use an abstract class with an instance of check.
And that's extremely relevant because remember back over inside of our area handling middleware.
Here it is right here we are doing some instance of checks.
If we continue with the same pattern that we have right here, we would eventually have to have a ton
of different if statements for all the different kinds of errors.
And so we start to run into that issue again where our error handling middleware starts to get really
bloated.
But if all these custom errors are going to be extending.
Some custom based class of custom air right here.
We can instead just have one single instance of checks, something that says is the air, in instance
of custom air.
Subclasses of this custom air abstract class will satisfy this instance of check.
So we will only have to write out that if statement one time and that will capture all possible custom
errors that ever get thrown inside of our application.
So long story short, rather than defining an interface and having our classes implement it, we're
going to instead define a abstract class called Custom Air, and we're going to have request validation
and database connection error.
Extend that abstract class.
Ooh.
I know this stuff is nasty, isn't it?
This is why I'm learning this stuff.
This is why you go and get a job and get paid the big bucks.
It's because this stuff is just ridiculous sometimes.
I know this is just really challenging stuff right now, and I know it's a lot of TypeScript stuff and
it's not really specific to the world of microservices, but this is stuff where again, you got to
make sure same thing this is all about.
We have to make sure that the air is coming out of our services are always satisfying that same structure
and it is by doing stuff like this right here, literally exactly this that we're going to make sure
that all the different areas we ever create inside of our application have that identical structure.
If you tried doing all this stuff with JavaScript, I can guarantee you you would start to run into
errors almost immediately.
And when I say errors, I mean bad errors, not these actual handled errors that we're talking about.
So I know this typescript stuff is nasty, but this is how we implement structure inside of really large
code bases.
It's just how it's done and it's what we have to do to implement microservices in some reasonable fashion.
Okay.
So a little bit of a spontaneous pep talk there.
Anyways, let's take a pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video.
Start to implement this abstract class.